for me as a vegan it's easy to be
self-righteous it's easy for me to say
shut it all down smash all the cages set
all the animals free that's easy yeah
but the whole reason why my youtube
channel exists is that I'm not really
interested in easy answers too
complicated questions I'm interested in
dealing with all the murky complicated
you know moral gray areas I've honest
yen get me up your ass that's our boy
man soon huh ba new CN that's been the
most profound thing and I always at
least tell people that like they asked
me about a beating diet I'll usually
tell them the story that you that I
actually first heard from you the one
about getting off the bus and seeing the
hot dog cart right and you know that you
can make the choice no one would judge
you for it no one would known around you
would criticize you for eating that hot
dog but you know so I always tell them
that story kind of with the ethics and I
always tell them the story no I I do
feel like you know there's a different
way that managed calories immediately
happens so just just to kick it off I
mean like there's a video up from a
couple days ago about my interactions
with another student at this school and
she has seen that video and she is
furious with me she hates me for that
video she would have hated me anyway she
already hated me but you know in that
conversation with her that I described
in the video I said look you know I talk
to this person who's a meat eater and
they ask me these questions and you know
type of the consequence of it the way
that conversation with her started was
simply that I invited her she had been
sitting with with a friend here with
another one of the students they were
complaining they had nothing interesting
to do in the weekends I said them well
look you know I'm going to make this for
like my own interest from purposes I'm
going to make a trip to the zoo here if
you guys want to come you can um so it
was actually a totally like the start of
the conversation was totally friendly
and not directly related to veganism but
the downward spiral from there really
was that she said oh well you know my
mother taught me that she and her mother
would never go to a zoo that they
consider that deeply immoral and what
have you and my response to that which
is why I mentioned now because I say
this all the time the meat eaters have
said this to my chinese teacher because
don't talk about this stuff in class
again you you talk about it in Chinese
as a way of practicing the language Doug
what's going on with your life whatever
is meaningful to you um but you know I
said the conditions of the animals in
that zoo you may think they're terrible
but they are the best conditions of any
animals in China and they're among the
best conditions for Hamels in the world
you know so that may be shocking that
may be horrifying but let's deal with
that shock and horror and then you know
move on so I think you know one of the
things that makes the whole question of
zoos meaningful whether time both zoos
in China or zoos in Thailand or zoos in
canada is that it raises the sort of
philosophical question of how do you
human beings animals live together and
you know again very often in zoos people
are confronted with conditions that they
consider immoral and what have you
that's like well okay let's really think
that through if you think this is
immoral what do you think about whether
I mean you the comparisons are surreal
but what do you think about the pigs
that literally live their whole life in
a concrete box in a condo on a concrete
floor you know there are veal cows that
live their lives literally in a wooden
box more commonly in a plastic box you
know with today's technology is more
often plastic rather than would but you
know what do we think about a dog living
its whole life you know as a
domesticated pet and even what do we
think about fish you know the mass fish
farming even you know farming of
crocodiles and alligators alligators for
for alligator leather you know to make
shoes out of them and so on you know the
comparisons they're surreal but if that
conversation starts at a zoo that's a
conversation I really want to have and
you know like it or not it may be deeply
embarrassing to you as a mediator or
maybe deeply upsetting to us as
individuals but the conditions we're
seeing at the zoo are not the worst
conditions for our human being street
animals they're they're actually the
best so that's my broad and general
first response but look it to give you
something more casino you're asking so
specifically in Asia you know yeah one
of the memories that stayed with me from
nine years ago here in kunming was
especially seeing the bears the
conditions of the Bears and cages and
you know i mean it is ooh
you see a lot about the culture you're
living in because you don't just see the
animals you see how the human beings
regard and relate and treat the animals
you see so many peculiar contradictions
contradictions about compassion but
contradictions about scientific
interests I you know contradictions
about education like is this supposed to
be educational or is this entertainment
or what look what is it what are we
doing if we go to see a bear in a steel
cage which is literally what that was
nine years ago was you know what wasn't
like a Zumba it was literally a bear in
a cage and of course there are people
trying to stuff food through the the
cage to get a reaction out of the bear
because the bear isn't doing much you
know it's not doing anything exciting
you know there are questions about the
meaning of life in more ways than one
that that come up and I remember so this
is nine years ago but here in here in
kunming in the same city I remember I
saw a bunch of people weeping at the zoo
and i remember it was obvious to me they
were not weeping because of the animals
but they were there at the zoo weeping i
mentioned this to a colleague of mine a
guy with the PhD an educated guy cerium
he's out he's a really strange character
also he's an eccentric but he isn't
intelligence and highly educated guy who
knows china pretty well and one of his
comments to me said oh well you know if
they were middle-aged people which they
work their middle aged people crying he
said you know a lot of people in the
older generation they actually have a
very firm sense of where they are and
where they are not permitted to show
emotion you know especially you know sad
emotion like like weeping and he said
you know in the old days people used to
pay to go to the cinema just to be able
to sit and cry in the cinema you know
because they didn't want to do it
somewhere else so he said that some
places like like a zoo rather than just
a public park that it was probably one
of the places where people could go and
kind of event or mourn or deal with some
of those emotions so that also is
fascinating you know they're there are
different levels on which you know the
zoo here the way it's used as a public
space and the reason why people go there
people here go to the zoo literally to
play musical instruments you know I've
got some footage of that up of people
sitting in the zoo playing traditional
Chinese musical instruments and so on
so you know of what is the future on TV
shows like Star Trek you know there are
no dogs on the starship enterprise and
there's no simple answer to the question
of you know how how do bears exist in
the city how do bears exist in the
forest and whether it's bears or dogs or
mountain lions for me there are so many
questions there and definitely you know
the jumping off point can be you know
what trip to the zoo so that's that's
the pause development of it but you know
obviously it's bleakest if you do go to
a zoo and find yourself weeping or
outraged at the conditions the animals
which is quite natural I mean you know
sometimes people who are not vegan react
that way okay but I don't see that as a
dead-ended emotion I see that as the
start of something really meaningful I
don't see that as just a meaningless so
you know wallowing in self pitying or
something I think if you are deeply
upset by going to a zoo in Asia that
could be something really positive in
your life as a whole that's going to
raise questions that are really worth
answering I think I think honestly like
if you look if you look at like things
that I've said I mean I think this whole
thing like me sharing stories about like
my zoo experience it's kind of like an
evolving thing I mean I think I think
I've given a few different answers to
why I'm doing it to different people um
I think if I'm thinking like um are the
most real thing is just to like I just
feel like you know I saw a lot of videos
where people you know Sue's our prisons
zoos are this zoos are dad and I
wondered and I wondered like I think
you've talked about new videos have you
ever actually talked to a zookeeper what
yeah yeah same with scientists and
everything else yeah right um I just you
know I think there's value to having
some stories some real stories actually
occurred news you as kind of having
something out there for people that you
want i bet i've had people comment on
some my videos one person predict on
thinking who said you know i watched
your video i haven't been to a zoo for
30 years out of like ethical issues but
after watching your video
I'm gonna go check out the zoo right
just to see what's up right cuz i do
things one of the true bite size vegan
talks about one or videos how literally
she questions whether or not zoos are
evolving because in like five years
nothing has changed but i think one
things i look at the San Diego Zoo I
remember going to the San Diego Zoo
there is a section of the zoo that's
beautiful just a foliage like the amount
that they grow themselves is under the
amount of bamboo that they grow
themselves they literally have parts of
the zoo where they just grow bamboo to
feed the animals and it's beautiful it's
like you're walking through a bamboo
fart is it truly adds to like the
feeling of the suit the size of the
chimpanzee and closure they had there is
unreal like just you look out you feel
like you're looking at a sprawling
mountainside but then there's a part of
the zoo that you go there and it's
grotto grotto grotto grotto grotto and
some of those have super super
endangered animals but if you go back
like 40 I'm gonna totally say
something's not wrong but literally
decades we're talking decades here that
Zoo is entirely grottoes I don't think
it's a five year thing I think it's a
decades decades in which the zoo's were
of all sure and yeah the other side of
this is that it's kind of leads us to
question the idea that the government
has all the answers of the government is
omnipotent you remember there was this
hit film blackfish I think it's called
you know kind of it made a lot of people
question the ethics of sea world of
keeping whales in captivity and so on so
I knew a guy in Canada he was one of my
professors but he that wasn't his main
gig and so this is just like one year
ago or you're a half ago now I forget
but not not that long ago um yeah he was
he was working as a university professor
but he's also an author and a filmmaker
he does all kinds of other things and he
had made a number of documentaries about
killer whales as they're called orcas
over orica is also is a ridiculous name
if you look into it they're both
ridiculous names or canned chili oil but
you know and they are actively hunted as
entertainment in the sense to be on
display in places like SeaWorld and so
on so I remember I made a kind of i made
a laconic comments about you know the
evils of our local our local marine park
there actually you know what I don't I
don't
think it was that I said it was evil I
didn't say that I think I just pointed
out that I had looked up the statistics
or how much money the government was
giving to this for-profit business you
know and he knows I'm vegan and so on
you know so I was like I think that was
at the time might my snotty comment it
is said you know the government the
government of this province just gave so
many million to our local you know whale
and dolphin amusement park which by the
way is not SeaWorld i forget the brand
name it's a different you know it's a
different brand name but it's the same
the same type of attraction and his
answer without missing a beat he didn't
reply to what i said was this is this is
good rhetoric he looked me in the eyes
and he said anytime one of the wild
injured any anytime one of the whales
are injured in the wild and we want to
save them that's the only facility we've
got that's it so in terms of keeping the
endangered wild population alive the
government's and the conservation
scientists and the conservation
activists and people like him they all
totally rely on that amusement park if
that amusement park shuts down they've
got nothing that's it you know the only
the only veterinarians with that kind of
expertise the only tanks that can hold
you know include this is the talk about
wild taken from the wild that can hold
them temporarily so the vet can patch
them up and put them back in the wild
that is it so it was a brilliant
response in his Park is obviously he is
you know he's an ethically inclined guy
obviously wants to actually help the
whales he doesn't he probably is not
comfortable with them being you know
exploited for entertainment this way but
the flip side is if you think you can
shut down that facility and that somehow
you know the government has infinite
resources to do positive things for
Wales the meantime you're wrong so it's
immoral it's unethical it's horrible
it's it's a terrible compromise but he
answered the question why is the
government giving millions of dollars to
this park that especially just lately
you know vegans and non-vegans both all
kinds of people at that time really
protesting against e-world Marineland
against this type of attraction I was
like well that is the institutional
capacity we've got to help you know the
endangered wild populations also and uh
with
zoos there's a very similar thing you
know yeah it's it's pretty atrocious
seeing you know these monkeys living the
whole lives in cages in the zoo's do you
think that if you shut down the zoo
there's a better facility somewhere else
where the government's or conservation
scientists or academics in a university
could work to help those monkeys you
know the endangered species specifically
recover to a you know a breeding
population have you for me as a vegan
it's easy to be self-righteous it's easy
for me to say shut it all down smash all
the cages settle the animals free that's
easy yeah but the whole reason why my
youtube channel exists is that I'm not
really interested in easy answers too
complicated questions I'm interested in
dealing with all the murky complicated
you know moral gray areas etc etc as you
know one of the things that one of the
things that have been engaged on on the
top of the zooks is um a few few people
have been churned this um but this idea
that if ideally in their mind these
things should be happy at like
universities real research facilities
that animals ideally in their minds
there's something there's a stigma zoos
that they want animals be taken care by
you know site whether it's a sanctuary
whether it's reserved somewhere and this
there's actually no I question you know
cuz i think i think you know a lot of
those university people are in zoos
first of all um but um one thing i'm
researching right now is on because i
want to make a video about it because i
think just the role that you know
medical science has played in this the
rule that sanctuaries and reserves have
played in this you know country and
zooms in fact it's a complete horror
story the story of on the north the
northern white rhino it's absolutely
absolutely and one of the things i think
is most impactful is on that basically
the store basically break down the story
there's basically there's three northern
white rhinos left and there's one male
and there's i believe it's just two
other females but there's there's
basically there's there's the gene pool
is almost nothing basically at this
point
um although there's other questions
interesting questions because the
northern white rhino is what it is two
subspecies it's not a species the
southern white rhino is doing quite well
but the northern white rhino is the one
that they're doing all these things to
but um you know they they decided to
move these they were living in a zoo at
one point and they decide to move them I
believe they were living it somewhere in
San Diego Zoo some some facility source
of San Diego but um you can tell that I
just have so many topics that I think of
that I literally flow from one of the
other so and we're off but the basis
storylines true but um they basically
they move this animal to on a reserve in
Africa and the first one and when when
they move them there um because the
realities of poaching and these animals
you know you move them back to reserve
in Africa the reality is they're
supposed to poachers again whereas in a
zoo you know that's one of the things
that they don't have to deal with and
while they can have someone watching
them protecting them they still have to
recognize no there's no guarantee we
can't guarantee that something will go
down so what they actually did was they
cut the horns off these rhinos like and
I totally I can totally imagine why
right right right right right to prevent
the poaching right to destroy you know
their attraction to poachers they
disfigure these animals in such you know
a horrific way that they look strange
when you look at them it's like this
longhorn that these animals how is just
this nub and I just think you know
people have this you know this ethical
attachment to these other to the
reserves and you know universities and
stuff that they're going to do the right
thing somehow the zoos are doing all the
right things and everyone else is doing
all the right is doing all the right
things if somehow you know we would
close zoos and get these plays the
chance and it's all over the all over
the place it's it's just you know it's a
complicated thing I think of one of the
interesting contrasts because the first
question you raised was the difference
between legitimate research and what
zoos do the part of what zoos do is
research but I don't know probably less
than ten percent of it is what they do
but you know
sure sure excuse me there's one of my
favorite stories that I ever took out of
the zoo zoo was on this son it was
literally just me driving in a van with
one of the vets the head vet of the zoo
and I don't remember what we were doing
I think we were going to pick up a crate
that we need to inspect somehow i think
i think i was i might have only been an
intern and i have just been riding along
for the day to see what it was like what
the vets did but i'm one of the things
that he talked about was he talked about
you know one of the research proposals
that was going out i think was um i
don't members who what probably
shouldn't say it anyway but on ira he
was talking about how it had to do with
primates and had to do with dom yawning
cuz yawning is one of those things that
you know it's it's known to be catchy
you know a human sees one human do it
you know they're likely to pick it up
and this student apparently this grad
student he wanted to do this project
we're on he wanted to look at yawning in
primates and he wanted to see if you
know the similar phenomena occurred in
primates and I remember I remember in
the nasally voice that this the head vet
hat I remember you just said that is
just so stupid because because one of
the things that was true for primates is
yawning is a territorial thing oh no
they on they open their mouths shows
their teeth that's how they say you know
you're you know you need to get away
from me so of course you know one
primate does it the other one's gonna do
it cuz it's a threat display so it's
just completely psychologically silly
and yours and that's just one thing I
picked up for that's that's just one
thing I had to throw in there that's my
favorite story ever about research and
zoos that is interesting though
certainly if we ever had that instinct
we don't respond to yawning that way at
all now huh interesting there is you
know there's just one human culture to
my knowledge I think in the whole world
but there still is in the extreme remote
part of northeast India part of India
that's closer to Myanmar you know it's
it's not part of the it's not part of
the scent India as we normally think of
the shape of India its way out on the
limits but there is one culture there
where they still regard smiling as a
threat that's showing your teeth when
you smile is perceived as a threat I
have never heard of any other culture
where that's that
true for for human beings i mean but
obviously many many animals show their
teeth as a threat and of course that
culture today is now those people as
they start to watch television and
become more involved in modern society
I'm sure that if that hasn't disappeared
then it's disappearing right now along
with many other footnotes in the history
of anthropology what's going to say
about the the issue of legitimate
research versus all the things ooze do
um I noticed there is no such conflict
with botanical gardens you know we have
a botanical gardens here in conveying is
a very famous botanical gardens in in
Sri Lanka those places they exist
primarily for research and they do they
do a lot of work on endangered plant
species I mean you may or may not be
familiar with us but it's it's similar
in that sense they're often trying to
preserve plant species from going
extinct keeping a catalog you know does
that the DNA isn't lost and they also
work on even reviving plant species that
have gone extinct we know there's some
seeds left there's some DNA material and
they can splice things they can actually
bring back plant species that have that
have already disappeared from the world
but all kinds of other plant research
that tends to be the main thing they're
doing and once in awhile they put up an
exhibition showcasing that but otherwise
the Botanical Gardens is open to the
public for a few hours per day and some
people not that many go and see the
trees or go and see whatever it is
that's that's pigs played so I mean
obviously the the issue of the the
ethical weight and the horror that is
associated with zoos and with the you
know something like SeaWorld with the
places that keep whales and dolphins I
think on the one hand it has to do with
the animals themselves with the sense of
how much territory they should have what
behaviors they should normally be
allowed to enjoy with their own natural
inclinations towards sex violence
territoriality whatever behaviors they
are the the presumed contrast between
the the animal in its natural habitat
and the unnatural of that and the other
hand I mean there's there's also just
death involved I like before I said it
on YouTube I'd never heard anyone
mention the issue I mean obviously
you've now discussed in YouTube channel
you you you may have discussed it before
I did and I didn't see it I don't know
who said it first but I to my knowledge
I was the first
to talk about you know if you have a
tiger in captivity you're not just
keeping a tiger alive you're killing
cows and lambs and chickens every day to
feed that type of horses I mean you're
channeling talk about killing horses for
horsemeat to feed the animals in the zoo
where there's that dimension to it also
as soon as we're into meat-eating
animals then we're talking about a much
longer shadow of animals being killed
some animals being killed to keep other
animals alive which supposedly is a
problem for us vegans because we
supposedly don't believe in you know in
speciesism so yeah but I just put that
to you I mean it's an interesting
contrast at any time as a thought
experiment you can say well if if this
is a problem with zoos why is it not a
problem with the Botanical Gardens that
serves a similar function but doesn't
have all the same ethical quandary
ethical issues ok disguise but Edwin can
go back to the black first thing sure
that's really relevant to me because i
actually just saw it last week Oh like I
live I literally I I am I think my mom's
seen at this point she got it from the
library I've seen it i think i think i
got on youtube but um um but I saw last
weekend I've researched it because I
actually I want to do a video cuz
there's a trainer who's been very vocal
about his bill he he sides with SeaWorld
and there's some there's some points
that you make that I completely disagree
with but I'm one of the things I
research is there's there's one trainer
you you I'm sure you say said it but I'd
miss it you've seen that movie right no
I've never I've never seen blackfish I'm
gonna going in there is there's a
trainer in that in that movie um horsies
name's John Hargrove I know his last
name is hard girl but I can't remember
sir I thought I might be spatially on
the first name but I'm he you know he's
one of the guys that they got to talk
about you know the reality of workers in
captivity you know some of the things
that trainers do he actually does kind
of a play by play on one of the
incidents that happen there um but I'm
he's he's actually someone who's been
slandered by seaworld you can look up
videos on YouTube of seaworld actually
making campaign just against him he's
maybe in the movie for used less than 15
minutes but you will really made a
campaign against him where they bring up
little text that he made um where you
know
said some things will under the
influence of you know alcohol and things
like that which is interesting in itself
but he's on he's someone who after that
movie apparently from what I understand
now there's legislation that prevents
sea world from actually um matchy going
from trainers actually going in the
water they're interacting with animals
outside the water on and he was one of
the he was one of the individuals who
actually testified that case that
actually got that legislation passed and
the first thing I thought of when i read
that was when you talked about how on
you know vegans want to play with vegans
they don't necessarily always want to
play with people who aren't Nestle
vegans but involved in those who do you
talk about a lot of intersection but I
thought that was a really good example
yeah I'm someone who's involved do that
someone you know if you put Chris Chris
ha or John I'm complete about his name
out if you put mr. Hargrove on a panel
I'm in like readings were in the
audience I'm sure he get booed I'm sure
people would say nasty things like throw
things at him you know he played a
legitimate role in legislation that
improves something that changed that was
just something that I thought of when I
saw that movie that was real and was
really relevant to something that you
talked about yeah I mean I think that's
partly because vegans don't understand
that process of what legislation is and
why expert opinion matters like it
matters to me as human being like for me
it's interesting to talk to someone who
has that kind of direct experience with
animal behavior and also with the
institutional behavior like whether
we're talking about vivisection or zoos
or evidence true of your channels is why
your channel is so interest is really
interesting for me to hear you talk
about you know killing horses at a zoo
so that you can feed horse meat to
tigers or whatever the animals are you
know are wolves or what have you you
know to me okay this is interesting and
this is the kind of you know a
analytical information that you know you
can't get by just sitting down with a
bunch of other vegans who already agree
with you and you know I'm probably going
to make a video soon talking again about
this concept of abolitionism in veganism
and you know there's nothing wrong with
the word abolitionism it's not that I'm
offended by the basic concept I
understand why people say that what they
want to say they are an abolitionist
vegan but it leads to
people wanting to shortcut or disregard
exactly these questions like oh well if
you actually want to testify in congress
if you actually want to inform a
legislative body this is how the
industry works and this is why you need
to regulate it in this way for any
specific regulation those are exactly
the guys you need right you need
informed insiders who really understand
the process you can really answer those
questions who can you can not only speak
from experience but who can literally
testify who can say yes I have seen this
with my own eyes and you see that even
with something like you know the Incan
gresham inquiry into steroid use you
know who do you think speaks on a panel
about steroid use you can get a local
Catholic preacher you get a Catholic
priest who for whatever reason goes
around saying steroids are bad but he
doesn't know anything about them he's
never used them he's never seen them or
you can get someone who is maybe a you
know a sports medicine doctor who
himself used to prescribe used to
provide illegal steroids but he was now
willing to come on the stand and say
look here's how the industry works
here's what's bad about it here's how it
is regulated you you absolutely crucial
II need insiders whether you know
whether it's the athletes themselves of
the medical doctors themselves who are
willing to come forward and talk about
how those things work and those will
always be people who are tainted those
will be people of blood on their hands
in some sense those are people
participate in it that's true whatever
congressional inquiries into you know
war crimes in Vietnam you know you want
to there's no point the moral purity is
actually you know just irrelevant to the
actual process you want the the
informative pains of people who are who
are really involved so anyway you people
like you I mean I hope frankly when I
watch your channel what I hope is I hope
you're not stuck being the guy who talks
about zoos for the rest of your life
like I think 10 years from now it's
going to be very different for you to
look back on this to say okay there's
time my life when I worked in zoos this
time of life when I talked about it a
lot I think I mean it's always going to
be meaningful for you I think it's like
you're always going to talk about with
people from time to time but you're also
going to make a transition where this
this isn't going to be the the crusade
this isn't going to be the you know the
flag you carry for the rest of your life
you don't want to always be the guy who
talks about zoos so what that transition
is for you i think is also a meeting
question because I was a beanie your
whole human being zoos are only one part
of your life it's only one part of your
own vegan activism him yeah I've been
aware that I mean there's certain the
one that you talked about actually
killing animals that's one that's a
video that she look back on and yeah it
was something that I knew I should talk
about right I didn't know how to talk
about it though and I think I frame in
that video that oh if you're begging and
you like you want to go on the zoo field
something that these are realities that
you have to deal with you know it's it's
not going to be you know I'd literally I
when I went to school we literally had
people who would come in like applying
to our zoology program saying that you
know what they want to do is they wanted
to play with baby tigers all day yeah
well no playing with baby tigers I mean
I could see that being something that a
vegan or vegetarian come and say that
would be their ambition like you know
something nice and soft like that having
to do with animals but on that's kind of
what i thought that's I'm but yeah but
I'm not when I watched that video i'm
actually not happy with i'm not happy
with that for some reason I can't put my
finger on why but as something I knew I
had to talk about right um yeah but I
have a I have a few videos you know it's
really I hear something like it could be
one thing someone says it could
literally just be you know seeing happy
healthy being and having a title that
says Pokemon go is not vegan or
something right I don't know what I want
to talk about so it's something that's
been very spontaneous to be honest right
no I'm my videos look my videos are
spontaneous too and I think you know in
the future I can really imagine that you
take your thoughts about zoos and you
put them together into a more formal
lecture like a written lecture that you
give it an animal rights conference and
then you know that's recorded but I can
totally imagine you going through a
process like that I'm just saying like
as one human being to another you know
as important as that is and I can
imagine if you gave that lecture once
you might then a year later give the
same lecture at a different animal
rights event animal rights conference I
can totally imagine that because i think
it is meaningful i think what you have
to say is very meaningful for other
vegans and i also think it's meaningful
for you to talk about it but i'm just
warning you on a human level like I
personally I don't want to be the guy
who talks about Cambodia for the rest of
my life cambodia comes up in my videos
but like Cambodia doesn't own me you
know what I mean
when I could actually I mean just this
morning I was thinking about I started
recording a video about some atrocities
and Laos or what have you you know it's
still part of my life it still comes up
but that's all I'd say is that you know
I was just making it in a sympathetic
sense the statement that uh you know
zoos don't don't let zoos dominate you
know it's fine and even if it's even
it's for the whole next year even if
it's the main thing you talk about
YouTube channel that's great i would
enjoy the videos myself i'm interested
in that but you know you you are more as
a person and your own potential as an
activist long-term you're more than that
one issue that's all I'm saying I i I'm
just you know I do you know interesting
in a challenge to talk to as well
because I'm literally something to sip
from how think about it sometimes like
like other kick something not gonna back
blackfish like add something next so on
so yeah I got I got yourself basically
that's my long-winded way of saying
we're cool but on and now x 0 like one
of the things as far as talking about
sue's that i have realized i'm gonna
have to deal with eventually or at some
point polo stories that are easy to tell
like um there are certain stories that
have i think i've mentioned a comment
with you the one about the you know the
anteater the 25 the 250 k anteater
that's a story that you know maybe 10
people on earth know and that's a story
that you know if someone who worked at
you know the place that I worked at you
know they could watch that be and they'd
be like oh he's telling all our secrets
um so um that is there and I I still
have friends you know who are in that
wearing that field and stuff like that
and I have to you know figure that at
some point I'm gonna get to the point
where you're like you know I'm starting
to get to you know content i haven't
talked about where we have to question
whether or not you know is this gonna
hurt someone if i talk about it now
gonna have to make decisions i mean you
know i didn't i didn't leave that fueled
in the best of way it was a conscious
decision I could have gone forward and
had a career in it but um I had some
broken ties in that industry on some
levels that's it i'm not right with I'm
not asking you to divulge in the secret
but I mean I thought you quit the zoo's
before you became vegan isn't that
back to me you chose to leave but you
yeah its third they're not they're not
connected okay Stan's I became vegan you
like oh like literally I think I'd
talked to you before that story would
begin cheetah where I literally was on a
streaming app with him and I asked him
you know you know Charlie do you think
that this is something that would be
worth talking on YouTube and he was like
oh my god yeah absolutely I'm that that
conversation actually occurred in real
time and it had in a big way you know
affected you know what I'm doing today
and you know in some way I'll always owe
that to him on some level um in a very
real way I'm talking on YouTube in
because of his influence um but um you
know I'm it is the talking about zoos is
something that I realized might be
finite you know it'll be something that
I know always have other things that I
want to talk about and stuff like that
but definitely at some point you know I
won't be talking about zoos I think
that's stuff in the reality yeah I hope
I hope one day I'm no longer talking
about Cambodia we'll see all right you
know I was going to say to just used to
two examples in parallel this applies to
so many things but you know the issue of
zoos and the issues of hunting you know
i do not i mean as vegans and again this
is a problem i have with the
abolitionist approach the abolition
approach says abolish everything and
there isn't really an acknowledgement
that we deal with day-to-day real
questions of priority you may or may not
have already heard this anecdote but you
know on my channel of complaint in
Victoria there was this group of vegans
and they were making it their top
priority to attack horse-drawn carriages
and in this case you know the word
attack isn't that inappropriate then
we're just criticizing it but to protest
that and obstruct and stop the horse
drawn carriages because the horses
pulling the carriages were being
terribly exploited yes from a vegan
perspective from a delicious right okay
yes a horse pulling a carriage it's not
vegan it's bad okay but this is in the
context of you know a civilization that
is built on every day millions of pigs
and cows being killed eat and turned
into leather you know the the the people
taking the carriage ride are wearing
leather shoes what is a real er issue
you know what I mean like there's so
many levels in which this is absurd and
it's it's just the use of your your time
and energy
so I mean again this is an issue with in
some of the currently popular theories
currently popular approaches to vegan
politics no we do have to make questions
of priority and I do not think that you
know shutting down zoos should be a
priority now we've already talked about
some of the reasons why that is because
zoo serve more than one function blah
blah blah definitely in a legal reforms
to change the the ethics of zoos or even
you know I just mentioned again I would
support a law within Canada for example
that made all zoos operate on a strictly
non-profit basis I think that would be
very interesting law to pass and then
probably zoos probably the question of
research interests and public
entertainment and education probably a
very different set of questions and to
what extent it's the taxpayers
responsibility and to what extent it's
based on zoo admissions you have very
different set of questions if they were
not probably but with all that having
been said you know the the funny thing
is when zoos especially sorry when zoos
are especially targeted by vegans
because some vegans do they really want
to shut down zoos some vegans especially
target scientific research you know
vivisection and so on related to cancer
or whatever the case may be and some
vegans especially want to target hunters
and all these things are marginal in
terms of the body count these are all
incredibly insignificant compared to you
know diet the exploitation of animals
for dieter or leather what have you
there obviously some symbolic
significance these people and some
emotional significance but actually you
know the animals being kept in zoos are
very small in number and this this
doesn't have the same see the animals
being killed by hunters a very small
number but the other thing that that to
me the reason why I'm pitching this now
the irony is that the people who work in
the zoo's there's some of the only
people who really appreciate animal
intelligence who really see it who
really have experience you know of the
kind you talk about and and penny more
and you know when I was studying a Cree
Cree in a jib way algonkian languages
first nations languages these are native
languages in Canada you know I was
reading accounts that were translated
from korean to english so you know you
look at both of people's lives people
would really lived as hunters in a
fairly traditional manner out on the
frontier I just give you this as one
example the story this is this guy
traditional hunter and he was talking
about the the types of intellectual
relationships he had with these wild
animals and he mentioned there was one I
believe it was a weasel I may have the
species later on but the weasel or
something resembling a weasel out in the
woods and it wasn't he wasn't his pet it
wasn't the messages lived in the wild
but it would come around and and chat
with him and talk with him and he would
give it bits of food especially because
he was hunting other animals and cutting
element of you and he got this
cooperative relationship going with this
weasel wild untrained animal where it
understand he would be looping a fishing
line and he would hand it so is a little
loop like a little a little noose like a
little loop and the fishing line and he
would hand it to the weasel and this
would be ice fishing in winter and the
weasel would go under the ice would swim
into the water and pull this out to help
him set up his his fishing apparatus
they would swim back and he would give
it food to reward and so on yet all
these bizarre stories about the
intelligence of wild animals some of
which he got to know just literally
because he was sitting in the forest for
many long hours and these animals out of
boredom and curiosity started spending
time now you know from a vegan
perspective this guy he killed animals
every day you know in the zoo does also
kill animals every day and also it's
holding the mckameys on but Emil again
there's some there's something here for
us to learn there's my fundamental point
there is a voice here that's really
important and worth listening to you
know now and for the future and by
contrast I've met and talked to
slaughterhouse workers no I do not
believe that employees of
slaughterhouses in that sense have
anything meaningful to say about animal
intelligence in the meaning of life not
not in the sense don't get me wrong
slaughterhouse workers are human beings
tip but you know there has to be some
recognition that what we're talking
about in terms of conservation in terms
of the future of how humans live
together with with animals what happens
in a zoo and even what happens with
hunters who literally live in the woods
you literally live with animals and who
may or may not respect animals they may
be jerks
no as an individual person they may they
may just be a jerk about it um to me
again it's just not as simple as the
abolitionists approach is saying this is
evil this is exploitation of animals
therefore abolish everything do it today
we have difficult questions of priority
and we have difficult questions just of
meeting people like you and listening to
them saying oh here's someone who knows
what it's like to shoot a horse in the
head and to cut up that horse and feed
it to a tiger you know there's something
there's there's a perspective on life
and animal rights here that I I don't
know you know there's something here for
me to learn I've never actually shot of
worse killed I'd killed I've seen I've
seen it been around that right i think i
think the most horrific stories in that
video or honestly though the for me
personally one about the small caliber
gun being used to kill the horse and
then just hearing the multiple gunshots
not being able to acting just picture
with the horrific scene what's going on
and then to actually have to go in there
and actually like you know finish not
finish the job nestle but then actually
prepare that animal to be fed like it's
it's it's not the I I talked about it
you know they're being a real teamwork
aspect and that's you know you talking
about smashing smashing in the heads of
rabbits and all that it's it's horrific
yeah it's horrific but it's it's worth
hearing yeah I forgot about that that's
actually fun um but out rabbits chickens
um if anyone was interested non horses
though but um but no but it happened I
was rounded one of the things I think
from the last time we talked I think was
you know most i think i think the things
that you told me about native about on
yeah the native americans are you
experienced with um I mean made me
reflect a lot of my own honestly um and
one of the things that like I recently
like I literally just saw this and I
thought of like what you were saying and
softening I think it reflects a lot back
about this common history that you're
talking about I literally like watch the
video i guess there's like the show
where celebrity Spacely in some kind of
frivolous thing they go back and they
they look at on their they they work
with a story and they find out their
roots their family and there was one
episode with this guy this actor Don
Cheadle's going like Hotel Rwanda um are
you I do know who John Don Cheadle is
amazingly but yeah I do know what don't
you it was good yeah this actor Don
Cheadle but um but um he's been in I
guess he was you know one of the things
that they came back with his ancestry
was that um you know he his uh his
lineage has no slaves and that they were
owned by Native Americans oh really wow
wow that was something that I never
honestly thought of the Native Americans
would have would have owned slaves and
not only that that I guess like even
after like the Emancipation Proclamation
um or whatever like Native Americans
didn't Nestle relieved there's released
their slaves I just said you know where
you know our own nation you know we're
not going to do that and I remember what
they said about when actually transpired
that you know his answers became
freedmen the first free man actually
turned up but on that was that was a
profound thing to me yes idea that I
never would have occurred me like on
some level you know I would have never
occurred to me that Native Americans had
owned slaves any court had owned African
African slaves well you know I've got a
reverse example this is long before I
studied Korean ajeeb boys languages it's
interesting you know my mother has said
to me she said you know you always cared
passionately about Native Americans
about First Nations like when you were a
small child you were already pissed off
about this which is interesting I mean
she remembers that I don't really I
don't that's not really how I remember
my own thoughts on the matter was a kid
but she said I was always this is always
kind of a political issue for me even in
childhood and mentioned also was never a
[ __ ] is also very unusual but it wasn't
based on a story book idea of Native
Americans of the past it was really
based on who they were today you know
like Native Americans as people who
watch TV and own cellular phones back
then it was they owned Walkman you know
it was them as real human beings not at
the kind of glorified vision of them but
you know remember i was talking to an
old frenemy frenemy is really the word
in this case he's you know not my friend
but remember i was talking to him in
canada years ago and
he basically gave his reasons for why he
as a left-wing person he was a left-wing
political activist type why he didn't
want to be involved in it didn't want to
care about the the Native American
situation in which you know ultimately I
have to respect his honesty you know
it's a decision everyone makes in Canada
you know you choose which political
causes are going to be involved in which
not and I remember he made a number of
statements about the history of slavery
as part of his explanation you know
slavery and how slavery had created
countries like Canada United States we
have you and I just said to him simply I
said you know that's that's what we did
to them when we we want to get rid of
them here in the British Empire you know
long after the British Empire supposedly
made slavery illegal when you look into
the details slavery slavery disappeared
from the british empire in a very slow
series of stages and most people are
taught in school a simplified history
that makes it seem that slavery became
illegal much earlier than it actually
did but in canada long after slavery was
supposedly illegal in in british
colonies when we wanted to get rid of
our rebellious native peoples and i
don't mean that in a casual sense i mean
native peoples who actually rose up in
rebellion we sold them to the sugar
plantations so we're exporting as slaves
our own native peoples to that part of
the world and I am told that some of the
DNA surveys were confused by this
because you can have people today who
are you know black predominantly of you
know Africa African Caribbean ancestry
but you have also people who are a mixed
mixed black and indigenous ancestry but
when they look into who the indigenous
people are they're not the people
indigenous to the Caribbean they're not
the people from those islands their
people from central Canada or something
you know so these are the the
brutalities and and vagaries of history
that you know we're now left to you know
we're now left to draw the lessons from
and move forward from but yeah I mean
ultimately look sorry this is off topic
but for me it's it's right on topic I
had someone writing to me in my patreon
group someone who paid the one dollar
thank you thank you to everyone who pays
one dollar for to listen to me talk um
you know and she was talking about how
inspired she felt by the things that
said about Laos and Cambodia those words
America's war in Laos son it is actually
difficult to answer the question if
you're being sincere what does this mean
to people today what's the message in
terms of public education or ethics you
know what does it mean for you and me
today to look at this as whether it's so
those are two opposite examples what
does it mean that yes Native Americans
owned Africans as slaves what does it
mean that yes Native Americans were sold
as slaves uh amidst African Americans
and sorry at the ending of that anthro
when I told that guy I remember what
surprised me was that he was really
upset by that he was really disturbed by
it and I don't know why I mean it's not
so different from everything else we did
in history of slavery or history british
empire but for whatever reason my
telling him that anecdote really shook
him up and I guess really challenged the
excuses would not the excuses it
challenged the reasons he had in his own
mind for I guess why he was more
interested in kind of black power
activism and not you know native peoples
rights I guess or challenged some
left-wing assumptions I don't know but
that was really upsetting them and for
me it's not really upsetting but it's
it's very difficult to really ask it
answer the question of if I'm gonna take
this message to people today why does it
matter you know why does it matter to
them and I don't you know I don't buy
into this sort of thing that we should
all be on the internet screaming about
every social injustice and that the
screaming isn't of itself when I share
those stories with people for one thing
I don't tell them to everybody and I
think there is a real question of you
know where are we going with this how is
this making how is this supposedly
making you a better person or how is
this vague the world a better place what
do we actually do with this history now
moving forward to that unwritten science
fiction novel of what the what the
future is supposed to be there's wonder
to you that you did and it was I
remember it's my editing my favorite
YouTube ending at all time were you
talking about this subject yeah and you
you acquainted to shouting at the moon
yeah yeah I think that's I think that's
my favorite ending all time you know I
think it's yeah you know there's a lot
again there's a as you said there's a
lot of people shouting shouting on
YouTube about you know various sorts of
things I thought that that equation to
shouting at the moon or whatever just
like just added to the lunacy of its
highlighted in a way just within that
like I thought that I thought I thought
that super found person well look I've
been thank you i can take a compliment
but I mean the other thing i can say
maybe we should wrap it up now because
we're past two hours a good length for a
podcast but you know i think the
questions about tradition they do relate
to the questions about the future in a
very simple sense because you know a lot
of time I deal with hostile questions
about veganism but about First Nations
Native Americans and all this stuff to
you know one of the questions have asked
it has an impact when you talk to
Europeans you know in the future do you
do you want to live in a world where in
the future there are no bears in France
you know wild bears not bears and zoo's
wild bears it's a really simple question
but when you ask it about the future it
actually does have an effect on people
obviously in play in Laos that was a
real question I had to ask people do you
want to live in a world where in the
future there are no Tigers in Laos wild
tigers i knew a woman in cambodia she
literally grew up in a village in
Cambodia where people got killed by
Tigers were hunt being human beings
being hunted by Tigers was a fact of
daily life and today that area is a
parking lot there is not a single tree
there is not a single tiger you know
it's just everything has been flattened
for human progress and you know that's a
real question what you don't do you want
your children to grow up never knowing
what a tiger looks like and hey let's
say it do you want your children grow up
never knowing what it's like to be
afraid because there are Tigers in the
woods isn't that a loss to you know what
I mean uh growing up frankly with that
fear with that awareness that the forest
is you know the forest is not a playpen
you know the forest has Tigers or if
it's in France that the forest has bears
isn't that a tremendously sad thing and
the context of Native Americans and so
on I have really had to ask people do
you want to live in a world where this
language is extinct where there isn't a
single human being left who can
communicate in a jib way Cree or
whatever the the the the language is you
know so for me I mean again I guess
that's the sense in which my
traditionalism is tied into these ethics
these political questions for the future
because ultimately I'm challenging us to
say yes with all this technology with
all this science can't we see a future
where we literally make space for these
other animals and yeah you know there's
a cultural component of that too you
know for these other languages but man
when you look at it it's really bleak
cuz I don't know what I don't know in
the future III don't have a lot of faith
that they're gonna be any Tigers in
Cambodia I don't have a lot of faith
there gonna be any bears in France you
want me I remember one of your videos
you talk um and one of your on you
talked about on when you went to the zoo
and you actually took footage you you
mentioned at the end of the video and
you put together a latch that was a very
cool montage I'm up this one species of
on I think was it noseless macaque
that's right it's a snub-nosed monkey
yeah that's correct yeah that's right
and I actually looked that up like after
you had that video and literally it's a
whole genius right the snub-nosed
monkeys its own genius you know I when I
see genius you know to me it has meaning
as like some of the state science I'm
not sure the average person if they
understand you know it's it's a specific
branch you know of you know
classification um but every you know
species in there that's like the whole
genius every species is endangered right
I don't you know what if they what if
there's a point you know when I you know
every single animal every single species
from an entire genus an entire branch
clade of evolution is only in a zoo I
know it's it's so sad and look I'm
actually glad you raised that because I
was going to mention this to you you
have at least one video I think more
than one talking about the fact that you
know like nature documentaries are
they don't really show you what the
animals in the wild that also is an
example of that so mention this because
it's also part of the spiritual
significance of that monkey no obvious
I'm a nihilistic atheist so you'll see
why I use the word spiritual and in just
a moment but you know in that video even
at the very end where it shows them
supposedly in the wild if you know a
little bit about the monk you can tell
that's not the wild you can tell you can
tell it's fake at exactly the ways you
you talk about for one thing they're
down on the ground they're sitting on
the on a felled tree picking up bits of
bark picking up bits bits of food bits
of moss you know like him hahahaha in
the wild in terms their natural behavior
that's where there'd be the most
terrified any predator can run by on
four legs and kill them when they're on
the ground right when they're on the
floor of the forest right including just
a dog wild dog can come by and tear the
neck brother totally defenseless against
the wild dog and even in that video were
chosen up in a tree it's not really a
tree they're kind of sitting in some
twigs kinda can't really bear their
weight in terms of how they would really
live if they're if they're ecosystem
were intact they were up in these dense
trees here in Yunnan we have what's
called a cloud forest cloud forest in
contrast to rain forest quite
interesting part of the function of this
force you have trees up at a level where
it would catch a passing missed passing
fog and ultimately as passing clouds and
so the trees would get more water
because you know the water would turn
into droplets and be caught by the
forest come down but you have these
dense dark trees and the monkeys are
black-faced as you know black based on
those monkey did well sorry they're both
black and white that the sort of ghostly
white features and black so there's
there's both black and white in their
coloring and the only time you would see
them as a human being would be walking
through that dark dense forest and then
these faces pop out at you right because
they're curious in the wild in the wild
they like human beings they want to come
and have a look and of course that's why
Native people in that part of you nan
they thought they were the ghosts of the
dead for two reasons one because they
have no knows their noseless so it looks
like a skull it looks like a human skull
to some extent right right but secondly
that be the only time soon would silent
these silent faces popping out of the
trees and looking at you with curiosity
and you can't see the rest of the monkey
right you can't see so it's really it's
really something magical and beautiful
and lyrical and special for this part of
the world and the forest has been so
destroyed that you can't even put
together a fake documentary trying to
make it look like they're in their
conditions and we're down to that point
of saying can we take a few dozen of
these things and give them a shot at
living you know in what's ultimately
going to be a man-made artificial you
know terrarium you know we can we can we
can we can we can keep a couple trees
together uh but you know it's it's past
that point so it's it's this is wildlife
management at its most extreme is can we
basically simulate a little patch of
wilderness for them and part of China
where to simplify all the trees have
been cut down you know yeah so yet to me
that's that's kind of a really really
meaningful and moving example in in so
many ways I like hearing those kind of
stories especially when you talk about
what you know then being the zoo I
remember what if one experience that I
remember having as a zookeeper that you
know until I thought about it later I
didn't really think about but I remember
there was one week that we spent like
fixing up this entire enclosure for
these animals that were coming in we did
a number of times I remember why it
sticks with me but I just remember
people would walk by and you know the
running joke that people would make oh
oh this is the human exhibit because you
know they see the keepers and you know
you get annoyed because every single
person comes by the cleverest person in
the world and they said something
everything other person said but I'm it
just it reflected me like you know
stupid things like people say you know
and hearing these stories about these
animals that have this true mythology
right this true you know context in
which they matter and just on some
little if I was a keeper at that too and
I know that and I see these animals
because as you say they're curious and
they're actually interacting with people
it would probably be a great exhibit
animal because they'd actually come up
thing and you know some someone would
hear the stupid things people would say
you know about those animals knowing
like the real you know how in the past
they being absurd special and you know
you look at this weird like knows this
monkey like you think he hides stuff in
there or like weird things like that
yeah you know yeah but look I mean you
know you know there is no political
party in the world that has a target to
increase um you know natural habitat
while wilderness habitat and you know
when I was in France obviously I've done
research on this in all these weird
countries in Cambodia and Laos and
Thailand so I've done in a bunch of ways
but France is useful cuz France it's so
similar to us as a society France is not
that exotic be the French government was
always publishing these lies about how
many thousands of hectares of wilderness
France has right and the way they did
that is you know France has controls a
bunch of remote islands in the Pacific
that sometimes have zero human
inhabitants there uninhabited islands or
sometimes there's you know one state one
military naval naval station there were
boats can dock and otherwise it's you
know it son habited and there are you
know some some birds flying around what
have you but you know their claims about
wilderness and you know expansive areas
for wild animals are totally based on on
places on the map that you and I would
just not consider France legally they're
French territory but this is like you
know the United States controls Guam
Guam is an territory of the United
States but there's another sense in
which Guam is really not the United
States this is a sense of it Midway
Island and these remote properties but
you know when I was in France I got to
see the single largest area of so cold
it's a national park I can't even call
it wilderness and all the people lived
around there said look you know it's
really dangerous to walk through this
park because if you go during hunting
season all you hear is pok pok pok pok
you just hear gunshots going off ms park
is a shooting gallery and you know
there's there's nothing wild about it
and then just say I mean it is what it
is it's a field with some feral pigs in
it and you know they keep the feral pigs
around because people like to shoot them
dead wild boar what do you want to say
nobody Emile to look yes some people
want to stop wearing leather shoes what
an incredibly small minority of the
population it's depressing there are so
few of us who have made the ethical leap
necessary to say you know what I can do
better than this I can stop wearing
leather boots you know that's already a
tiny percentage of population but it's
also depressing to me it's also and it's
it's a it's a really urgent issue
there's nobody or almost nobody sitting
there in France looking at a map saying
we need to make some space so that bears
can exist you know and not for my
entertainment but you know that there's
got to be some percentage of the map has
to this has to be a priority you know
and i know i mean i know we have other
priorities you know hey somebody's gotta
conquer Syria again somebody's got to
conquer Afghanistan and Iraq again you
know there are untold millions and
millions of dollars being put into other
priorities in life but for me short term
and long term I'm basically you know I
remain horrified by human beings that so
few people look at the map of France and
think that's a problem and I can say
that about Laos and Cambodia to to some
extent just somewhat different story I
want to ask you a nut I hope this isn't
too depressing for you go no but on
again in the last like few minutes we've
talked about you talked about you know
saving preserving cultures you talked
about preserving animals on in a very
real way I'm a way I'm aware that you
know the dollars you no matter that the
dollars can make a difference in saving
an animal do you think that money can
preserve like raising money for a cause
do you think a millionaire can start a
fund to mom say oh I want to raise this
much money to save a language
yeah does that make sense yeah I look I
mean it III think I think it's happened
I think there have been some some
projects like that I mean for me
something I used to say to people in
that part of Canada where you know
native people are still a significant
percentage population by blood but very
very few of them can speak the language
I'll point out to people when you go to
a bank machine here you put your card in
you have English French Chinese minimum
maybe maybe Spanish or another language
also but nobody ever thought it was
important to have career a jib way or
mohawk or you know any other native
language when you go to the bank machine
you press a button to choose your
language you know so yeah you can think
about it in terms of preservation in
terms of conservation but ultimately you
know the question the problem is
forward-looking right is not putting the
language in a museum which you know you
can do for a million dollars you know I
mean like I think that's that's the side
that a millionaire can do which is very
positive and I encourage that also if
you got a million dollars and you care
about language diversity or what have
you they're millionaires can do really
positive things that way for sure but
looking forward I remember talking to
one of my professors and again they were
just very impressed because I thought
about these things it's a different way
from the other white people who are
interested is you know some of the white
people are Christian missionaries and
different types of eccentrics but I
remember talking to professor I said
look what's our timeline when are we
going to have a first chemistry textbook
written and Cree and they were shocked
and I said yeah you know like science
textbooks for children obvious I'm not
talking about you know advanced research
level text books being written to create
a jib way it's just you're not gonna
have a large enough population to do
that and many languages within Europe
are like that too you know if you speak
a smaller language than Europe you know
for advanced scientific research they
have to use a language like English or
German after use a larger language to
get really specialized stuff but yes you
know science education and developing
the vocabulary to talk about science in
those languages moving forward where
this is not just about preserving
you know your grandfather's stories or
legends is obviously a very real part of
it a lot of people want to preserve the
legends and songs and music traditional
songs in those languages moving forward
if this is going to be part of a
meaningful life in Canada it has to be
in the bank machine you know it has to
be in those kinds of prosaic uses also
and you have to have a bunch of bored
kids in a classroom going oh no it's
science class again and like you know
learning stuff they don't want to learn
in the language too you know so yeah I
don't know for millionaires I think
definitely nature conservation is easier
than those really complex questions of
language conservation and in both cases
you rely on your on people like you ju
rely on people who have hands-on
experience you rely on people who've
lived the sort of with the ethical
contradictions and quandary zand you
know these things work you know the
contradictions in the community and the
culture on that side the carnation
without humans live with animals how
animals actually live in the wild you
really you really need to learn to
appreciate the perspectives the people
have that experience and have that
knowledge which right now from my
perspective the vast majority of vegans
don't okay look great great talk to you
but you want to wrap it up there I mean
you wanna see some more of you great
well and maybe this isn't content that
you Nestle want but I I wanted to float
something out to you because if I don't
I'm gonna regret it like I'm gonna think
about it forever but I'm cool I can
always censor it later don't worry cool
cool cool we talked we talked in
beginning about how you create
thumbnails and stuff like that like how
can you create three video I was
wondering cuz honestly I i am i'm
willing to kind of accept you know that
the vegan embassies of this world
they're gonna come out and say I'm the
you know hello mini mr. clean I like the
dr. evil and better than the mr. clean
one personally um but um I was wondering
and maybe and I respect you know people
have certain ways of doing things I know
that sometimes people to ask me give me
ideas and how to do things and you know
I got my own
I don't care but um I think I've always
thought me funny count the thumbnail but
the thumbnail for a video with you beat
do you send me and I would send you a
matching one like 11 you're faxing rose
I'll shave my head like perfectly wait
is that him again so we we can we can do
that um you know but you might want to
wait don't you want to do it for this
podcast I have a suit being made by a
tailor right now and I only thought us
afterwards I went to a tailor and i
ordered a traditional chinese style suit
a grey suit with a certain kind of color
and only afterward that I realize dr.
evil good that's great and that's
actually that's the style suit both worn
by the original doctor no character you
know because dr. evil is a parody of dr.
know who wore a Chinese suit and then
dr. Evil's character I think the style
of [ __ ] was just a little bit different
so coming up if you want to you can do a
cosplay as me that's true we could do a
I could send you a post photograph and
you could match it then we could be
either both of our channels whatever and
uh but also if you wanted to you could
do a cosplay as me as dr. evil I'm not
going to do any makeup I wouldn't do any
makeup or anything but just me and that
gray in that gray Chinese suit with
Chinese color that could be a hit for
you and I mean you know and if you might
if you get a suit like that believe me
you can get a lot of use out of it those
are really good suits okay great look
that's it's wonderful to be managed to
start stop this podcast on a positive
note let's stop before we talk about
anything too depressing wonderful
wonderful meeting you and like I've said
to so many things vest I hope I still
know you five years from now what I'm
doing right now is not activism it's
making friends it's making connections
for the future but you know I hope you
know next five years next ten years we
can all make slim positive happen and
this mess of eccentrics on YouTube it's
a much more positive basis for you know
future positive political action then a
lot of movements had when they were
first getting organized so here's to you
man here's to us here's the future
y'all see that I'm down with a capital g
bt boy you can't [ __ ] with me in your
neighborhood you better done sighs Kim
is crazy as [ __ ] when I'm going out
believe something
hell if I ever got me feel I'll give a
[ __ ] that's no problem see the month
cooking out mound up some sass male go
creep baba never see you go fast fine
he's gonna find as you to show
easy nothing on me